I asked this fellow, I said, "Is there
really a UFO cover up?" And he said,
"Yes." He said, "That's all I can tell
you. The rest you can figure out for
yourself." Mars was covered with liquid
water. I was the one to find the Martian
ocean. We were looking at Sidonia Menza,
which is a site where there's the face
and then there's a five-sided pyramid.
NASA never shows that picture of the
face beside the pyramid together in any
of their public photos because it
becomes obvious
really
we're looking at archaeology. They kind
of made fun of me [music] as the Mars
guy and then suddenly Carl Sean is
trying to get a hold of me and I said
well Carl what you think of the pictures
[music]
why are you causing this trouble?
No way.
Yes. I found and digested the isotopic
[music] evidence and when it all hit me
I wept like a child. It looked like a
thermonuclear holocaust.
We were so afraid it would happen on
Earth.
I'm here with Dr. John Brandenburgg. Uh
and it's an absolute honor to have him.
You first popped up because I actually I
did a a piece on Towns and Brown and you
know my audience has heard me talk about
Towns and Brown Adnausium. He's this
mid-century inventor who I think, you
know, did some interesting things in the
world of gravity, possibly helping marry
gravity and electromagnetism from an
experimental standpoint.
Yes.
Maybe not in the strongest, you know,
the strongest theoretician. And then all
of a sudden there's all this Twitter
noise about this guy John Brandenburgg
who has his own model, GM, gem theory.
Gem theory.
Gravity electromagnetism. Is that right?
Just gravity electromagnetism. And um
and then more recently I've started to
get interested in kind of Mars anomalies
which have gone kind of viral. Like Joe
Rogan recently retweeted my buddy Chris
Ramsay who posted
this photo that's now been verified at
the highest levels of this sort of
square structure on Mars that looks
artificial. But that's of a long lineage
as you know of uh seemingly artificial
structures on Mars. And you're about as
deep as anybody on that topic.
Yes.
And so it's just an absolute honor to
have you and I I appreciate you taking
the time.
Well, Jesse, it's a pleasure and honor
to be on your show.
Awesome.
You have had many awesome guests and uh
I've you know I followed your follow
your work. It's very good. Well, you're
among the most awesome and um why don't
we start with just because we're going
to be getting into pretty interesting
territory that for the average, you
know, person who believes in kind of
consensus or mainstream science might
feel beyond the pale. So, uh uh I think
what's pro possibly most remarkable
about you is you have very traditionally
impressive bonafides and credentials.
So, what's your background? Uh well, I I
went to uh I grew up in Oregon and I
went to school uh for undergraduate at
Southern Oregon University majoring in
physics and math. and inspired by my
uncle who worked on the Manhattan
project during World War II. I wanted to
uh go on for my PhD and they encouraged
that uh and um so I ended up working at
Lawrence Liverour National Lab which was
a center for fusion research at the
time. It's also where they had the big
laser fusion experiment. And uh at the
other end of the lab though they were
building hydrogen bombs. So it was a
very interesting atmosphere. Uh the
Edward Teller was kind of the mentor of
the program and uh it was a very
entertaining character to hear talk and
he would come and talk to us and I had
several pleasant conversations with him
was very inspirational.
So then I finished there and I went on
to another government lab called Sandia
National Lab and worked on directed
energy weapons. I wanted to work on
fusion but all the money had suddenly
dried up for fusion research. Um
and so I worked in New Mexico for about
um 3 years and that's when
um the lab the laboratory staff
experienced
this moment of great angst and uh kind
of morale collapse because of two
things. the nuclear winner came out and
then the um there was a AEL archer
crisis of 1983 which was classified. We
were as close to a nuclear war as we
were during the Cuban missile crisis but
it was secret. Only people on the lab
premises inside the fence knew how bad
things were. And um I was felt in
despair like a lot of other people at
the lab and that we were going to have a
nuclear war by accident. And um then I
saw this interesting stuff on Mars and I
checked it out and I thought suddenly I
had hope for the future for the human
race. I thought well if we discover a
dead civilization on Mars then the cold
war will be over. the Russians and the
Americans, we'll go to Mars together and
investigate. And I I remember the first
night seeing after seeing that the
evidence putting my little daughter to
bed and um having hope for her future.
And uh so I uh then I went from there to
uh Washington DC and worked uh as a uh
defense contractor
uh as a consulting physicist to the
Pentagon and the intel agencies and um
at the time I didn't believe in UFOs but
by after working there for about a year
suddenly it was absolutely clear there
was a UFO cover up And at what point did
that become clear?
Uh, well, I talked to um a friend of a
friend worked for the Joint Chiefs of
Staff on at their, you know, at their
staff level. He was a colonel and I've
been hearing all of those rumors. The
rumors
were uh just very thick in the air
during the Reagan administration. He was
warning about invasions from outer space
and and uh that we ought to end the Cold
War because of that. And and I asked
this fellow, I said, "Is there really a
UFO coverup?" And he said, "Yes." He
said, "And that's all I can tell you."
He says, "The rest you can figure out
for yourself." He says,
"This guy was on the chairman of the
joint chiefs or
he he worked for the the joint chiefs as
a staff." Uh,
so you spoke it was a friend of a
friend, but you spoke directly to the
person? Yes, I did.
The chair of the joint chiefs and he he
basically
he was not a chairman. He was not one of
the joint chiefs but he was part of
their staff
staffer or something.
Yeah. Supporter
and he and he was like there is
definitely there.
Absolutely. And then I confirmed that
through a second uh um source.
He was a second source.
Uh he was a some hapless character I
called at space command and I said u
I've heard there is an extraterrestrial
threat whose existence is classified.
I'd like to help with that program. And
he said oh okay here. let me see if I
can connect you with somebody
and then he says uh he says we'll have
to call you back on that.
What was uh Edward Teller like? You know
obviously he was oxygen bomb and
very animated.
He had big eyebrows. Um, you know, he's
Hungarian and Jewish and he, uh, being
Hungarian, he had a congenital fear of
the Russians and, um, he was just a
very, I considered him a very creative,
enlightened person.
Really?
Yes. And um
because he's sort of it's funny post the
movie Oenheimer I feel like he's painted
as this sort of villain who wants to yes
build a bigger and bigger bomb
and if you if you do read his letters
around the creation of the Hbomb
it it it does bely somebody who has a
conscience who's saying you know I think
we need to do this for the western world
because if we don't do this the other
side is going to do it and it's it's
actually really important that that we
uh we figure this out. Um, so yeah.
What's your take on him? I mean, other
Oh, oh, I I believe he he was acting on
instinct and he was from Hungary, which
has a bad history with Russia. And um he
uh he just intuitively felt that the
Russians were working on the hydrogen
bomb. And now that they had the atomic
bomb, they'd gotten the atomic bomb
secret and that was what you needed to
set off the hydrogen bomb. It was
basically the detonator cap. And um he
says, "We can't stop working on the
hydrogen bomb cuz if we do, Joseph
Stalin will get the hydrogen bomb and we
won't have it." And Oenheimer was
suffering from a great deal of angst
about the bomb being used in World War
II. And
uh he resisted this. He says, "No, we
don't need the atomic we don't need the
hydrogen bomb. We have the atomic bomb
and the Russians will never figure out
how to build a hydrogen bomb." And later
Teller and Sakurov actually got to meet
and Sakurov, the father of the Russian
hydrogen bomb, looked at all of Teller's
communicates and back and forth and
said, "Oh, Teller was right. We would
have never stopped working on the
hydrogen bomb." Joe Stalin wanted the
hydrogen bomb. Did he? So, you said you
were working down the hall from him and
he was working on hydrogen bombs. uh
just for the audience's perspective. Uh
so uh uh hydrogen bomb is basically
uncontrolled fusion.
Uncontrolled fusion
and the uh kind of holy grail in energy
would be controlled fusion.
Controlled fusion. That's why I've
worked uh most of my career on
did Teller believe in the ideal of cold
fusion or or not necessarily cold fusion
but controlled fusion?
Oh yes he did. He he did and uh is
curiously enough Andre Sakurov is the
designer of the Tokamac which is the
leading contender to be a a control
fusion
and is there's a relationship between
Sakurov and uh and teller
well they were both brilliant people and
they both kind of uh they thought down
the same passages
uh they they looked at the data and came
to the same conclusions even though they
were completely isolated from each
other.
Are all the conspiracies about
controlled free energy, you know, you
have people in UFO world like Steven
Greer who are like, "It's the last
century. We figured this out a 100 years
ago with Tesla. The patents have left
all these patent offices and inventors
have died." And they'll go through like
a laundry list of these inventors who
like, you know, Stan Meyer had a car
that ran on water or whatever and like I
don't know what to think about it. Um,
look, do I believe oligopouloolists uh
kind of run uh the US or have for a long
time? Like basically, yeah, I do. Do I
believe that they would commit sort of
violence to maintain their igopoly and
and and ensure scarcity? Yes. Do I also
simultaneously think that we have some
zero point energy machine or or
controlled fusion reactor hiding in a in
a closet at Lock Eat or something? I I'm
I'm not so sure. So, yeah. What What do
you think? Are you still lugging around
one of those bulky worn out wallets?
You know, I am.
That your posture is not great due to
that wallet.
Yeah.
Are you aware of that?
I am. I'm currently now more self-aware
of my posture.
It might be time for an upgrade.
Oh, what do you suggest?
My personal suggestion is Ridge Wallet.
Look at this sleek design. Do you see
it?
Oh, wow. So sleek.
Yeah, pretty sleek.
Uh-huh. This thing holds up to 12 cards
plus cash.
All in a slim, durable, and stylish
package, too.
You took the words right out of my
mouth.
Ridge wallets feature RFID blocking
technology, so digital pickpockets won't
stand a chance. Plus, with their Air Tag
attachment, you'll never lose your
wallet again.
Where'd it go?
I lost my wallet.
Uh, I was just checking my Air Tag.
Easy.
Brilliant. Yeah, I was recently in the
Colorado mountains and if I had lost my
Ridge wallet, I would have no problem
tracking it down, even in the Rockies.
Right now, Ridge is having their once a
year anniversary sale. So, get up to 40%
off at ridge.com/cosmic.
Just head to ridge.com/cosmic
to see their biggest sale of the year.
After you purchase, they will ask about
where you heard about them. Where did
they hear about Ridge Wallet, Chris? Um,
they heard it here first on American
Alchemy.
Yeah.
Please support our show and tell them
our show [laughter] sent you. Upgrade
your wallet. Thank me later. Uh, I think
that um, controlled fusion would be the
ultimate fusion device. I mean, the
ultimate energy source. uh zero point
energy is very important to understand a
theory of unifying gravity and
electromagnetism because it's it's in
quantum mechanics. Uh however um
according to Andre Sakurov,
the way to tap zero point energy is have
a black hole in your basement and feed
it uh stray stray animals and uh
[laughter]
things you don't want and get the
energy. Some of the energy goes into the
black hole and some of it bursts out at
at and you don't want to have a black
hole in your basement.
No, that doesn't sound so great. But but
but I guess the the question is do do
you think there's been a line of
suppressed science that has been hidden
in the black but could amount to real
civil side updates in the way we live
our lives, the way our cities are built.
I'm not known for being a skeptic about
things, but I'm a skeptic about that. I
do not think short of making your own
black hole and trying to keep it in your
basement, you can harness free energy.
Now, I could be wrong. The times I've
been wrong in my career have been mostly
when I said this can't be done.
[laughter]
And uh so I uh but I don't subscribe to
Jim Greer's idea that the government is
keeping free energy from us. I think um
I I do know that the fossil fuel
industry is probably the most
well-moneyed most powerful
um lobbying group uh on earth. There are
countries where it is their entire
lifeblood is fossil fuel. If you
endanger that um you will take away they
you'll be viewed as taking away their
entire way of life. So, um, do I believe
that there's an energy oligarchy trying
to guard its turf?
I'm afraid I do. Uh, but I I think that
because of global warming,
uh, which I I believe is happening,
uh, we have to come up with a new form
of energy. I sat down a couple of years
ago with Eric Weinstein, an old
colleague of mine, and Hal Putoff, who's
a kind of a renowned scientist.
Love Hal. Love Hal.
Great guy. And Hal, you know, made some
interesting comments around there was
this anti-gravity craze in the ' 50s and
then, you know, in the in the 60s it
kind of just like vaporized like it kind
of went it seemed and he goes they
either didn't get anywhere or it went
black. And that was like this famous
line from that interview that got like
clipped a bunch because, you know, he's
this kind of spooky insider.
I agree with Hal.
There's a famous uh series came out in
the Miami Herald and other newspapers in
um probably the 50s. The author was
Talbert and [snorts] he did a series
where he found out that a number of
aerospace engineering companies were
suddenly interested in anti-gravity and
that people like Dwit on up and down.
Really top level physicists were
suddenly getting grants to look at the
idea of anti-gravity. for example, the U
Gravity essay came along
from the Gravity Research Foundation in
Boston, right? And so it looked like it
was going to be a big explosion. But
anyway, then it all sort of quieted down
and I could take two implications of
that and that is it quieted down because
nobody ever got anywhere
or it quieted down because they did get
somewhere and it went black. So you
think from Hal that's like a I can
neither confirm nor deny statement and
that is confirming without confirming
it. [clears throat]
Hal uh how
uh is still very much part of that world
and he has to follow its rules.
Why do why do you agree with how that um
anti-gravity updates were made and and
and went black? Well, obviously if you
have anti-gravity technology or what
they call gravity modification, that's
the we're not anti-gravity here. We just
wanted to be a little bit more flexible.
That's right.
And so, uh, so um, it would have great
military importance. Um, uh, Einstein
worked very hard on trying to do a
unified field theory to unify that, you
know, there are four forces of nature.
Two of them are infinite range. One is
electromagnetism, one is gravity.
The weak the strong force. They run
things at the size of the nucleus in the
atom.
And they're powerful, but they don't
have long range. Um, so uh Einstein just
figured, okay, I can pick out the two
long range forces and unify them. And uh
he made uh a lot of progress and he
helped get Kuza Klein theory, which has
a hidden fifth dimension to unify
gravity and&m mathematically. He helped
get that published. Uh he didn't like
the fifth dimension, but he decided uh
uh that it it the math worked out so
beautifully that it must be true.
Fifth dimension was one of my favorite
groups during the 60s by the way.
[laughter] So uh
up and away
up up and away.
Wait wait wait. But so you're saying
that Einstein might have figured out the
unification mathematically because the
the modern understanding is that
no he well
um there's a saying that on his deathbed
he suddenly became ecstatic and was
started talking excitedly to his nurse
in German.
Mhm.
Like he'd had a a conceptual
breakthrough
and uh the nurse didn't understand
German. So then he uh got back in his
bed to lay down and uh passed away. So
he died happy. So he may have as some
last moment uh now um Hal Putoff and I
both have come up with similar theories
and um we just did it by just simple
deduction. uh and uh you know from
physics it uh the nice thing about
gravity theory and electromagnetism you
don't need to have a quantum theory of
gravity to unify gravity and nm
there's electromagnet you know there's
an electromagnetic effect I found that
looks just like gravity uh you can call
it radiation pressure
and uh Sanders Sakurov found something
very similar and this is what led how
put off to develop his work and um the
only thing different between my theory
and how put off series my theory
predicts big G
okay
the gravitation constants and uh and the
mass of the proton imagine the beginning
of the universe the big bang before the
big bang nothing
suddenly one second later
the universe is a fireball of hydrogen
plasma
almost pure hydrogen like 1% neutrons,
enough to trigger some, you know,
nuclear reactions, but it's it's
basically just hydrogen. So, the the
vacuum is hardwired
to make hydrogen, electrons and protons,
which are both stable. They last
forever.
And um so, and if you ratio um their
their masses, it's 1836. And the square
root of that is 42.
Mhm. which I did not know when I wrote I
did not know about Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy when I wrote my original
theory and derived that result. The key
number to the universe is 42.85. It
turns out to
Well, so I want to get into your
unification theory towards the end of
the episode because I think that's
in some for to a lot of people the most
interesting, but it's also I think maybe
the least accessible for the lay
audience. How did you get into the idea
that there may have been life on Mars in
the past? in a distant past.
The Viking missions
um had been in 1976 and when I was in
graduate school and uh they gave the
verdict, you know, they tested for life
in the soil and they said,
"You want to just tell people what what
are the Vikings?"
The Vikings were a very ambitious double
probe mission. It was ultimate vacuum
tube technology kind of mission. Um and
they sent these probes to Mars. They
photographed the surface of Mars in
great detail with just superb cameras.
They landed two landers that tested the
soil for um life
and they got mixed results which now can
be interpreted as they found life but um
at the same time they also sampled the
atmosphere and um uh found a a ter a a
great excess of radiogenic isotopes.
They're stable isotopes, but they're
formed by uh in uh you know powerful
nuclear reactions. They found that on
Mars and that made Mars unique. It was
so unique that when then we started
getting meteorites, we started
recognizing, oh, they're these strange
meteorites
and it looks like they come from Mars
and they tested the gas trapped and and
they found the same the same pattern of
strange radio strange isotopes in the
Mars what they thought were Mars
meteorites and that's how they figured
out that they were from Mars because the
Mars isotopic signatures are so unique.
unique in the solar system.
And what exact isotopic signatures did
they find?
Uh well, they found a large amount of
xenon 129, which is the product of two
things. Uh supernova explosions and
hydrogen bomb explosions.
And we know there was no supernova on
Mars. If there was, that there wouldn't
be a solar system here.
And you said there was one other argon.
There was a uh also there's a when you
irdiate rocks that have potassium in
them and all rocks do uh they produce a
isotope uh called argon 40 and that's
super abundant on Mars. So you have two
things that are products of what look
like an intense nuclear reaction on Mars
in the atmosphere. Um, and they're both
they're most the residues of that remain
in the atmosphere. They're stable and
they last forever. So, um, but they also
found, um, what looked like archaeology
on Mars and that was the initially the
most exciting thing. I only found out
the significance of the isotopes on Mars
from a staffer at Sandia Labs.
What's the convention? If I were to, you
know, be sitting across from Neil
deGrasse Tyson, you know, and I said,
and I were to say because he's
very pleasant fellow.
He's tried to explain away, you know,
the face on Sedonia or whatever that,
you know, this famous seemingly
artificial structure
to sit down and talk with him.
That would be great to host a debate. He
didn't
as long as they let me bring my pictures
of it from NASA.
Yeah, I think he um would shy away from
debate. I think he likes, you know, to
kind of pontificate and like act smarter
than, you know, everybody else on his
own show. But
I'm calling him out. Throw down, dude.
I know. Well, we've called him out
multiple times on the show.
Throw down.
And he just I think I'll be waiting.
Yeah. Yeah. Let's do it. Um but uh uh
from your lips to God's ears. But
so if if I were if I were sitting across
from him, let's just, you know, little
audience surrogate devil's advocate
question.
Sure.
How would he explain
Xenon 129 and Argon 40?
He can't. [laughter]
That's the short answer. It is uh Oh, he
probably wouldn't admit it, but uh I've
I've
No, but would he admit that we found
those?
Oh. Oh, yes, he would. Yes, that's a
fact.
That's a fact. Indisputable. And um
so he would he would just say there's
probably some other explanation, but I
don't know what it is.
But yeah, that's what he would say. I I
have reviewed the literature very
carefully on this. You can imagine I'm
sticking my neck out as a scientist.
Yeah.
But I uh found that the the consensus
among the real experts on isotopes not
just on Mars but on the other planets
and meteorites and things like this is
that there is no explanation for the
xenon 129 super abundance or the argon
40 super abundance. Yeah. So, let's get
into other possible evidence. Okay. So,
that's really interesting. And do the
two So, xenon 129 that that would come
from these large hydrogen explosions. Is
that right? And then
Argon supernovas, but it's was not a
supernova on Mars,
right? And I don't think anybody would
contest that. It's not a star. It's a
planet. So, so uh and then the second
thing, the Argon 40, uh that's a result
of some sort of explosive event with
potassium. Is that right? Well, it's
it's it means uh a lot of potassium was
uiated by neutrons.
Okay.
Which is a typical byproduct of any
hydrogen bomb uh or any atomic any
nuclear explosive produces a lot of
neutrons. That's where they got the
neutron bomb
and Okay. So, that's interesting. Okay.
So, let's that's kind of hard to argue
with, right? Like that's that's one
piece of evidence, right?
Now, let's let's get into other possible
evidence. So, uh, water valleys
seemingly across Mars.
Obviously, Mars was just covered with
liquid water. Uh, I was the one to find
the Martian ocean.
You were?
Yes.
That's how'd you find it?
Uh, well, actually, it was um we were
looking at Sidonia Menza, which is a
site where there's the face and then
there's nearby like five miles away,
there's a five-sided pyramid. NASA never
shows that picture of the face beside
the pyramid together in any of their
public photos because it becomes obvious
really looking at archaeology you know
and Sidonia is what region of
Sidonia is in the northern part of Mars.
It was considered the garden spot of
Mars. They wanted to land one of the
Viking landers there. But then in
something that was kind of scandalous,
the people, the scientists running the
Viking program who were determining
where they were going to land,
Mhm.
suddenly found themselves overruled by a
group they didn't even know existed on
the project.
Who was Who were they overruled by?
They were never sure.
It's just that NASA just said NASA just
said basically the boys downtown say you
can't land there.
Do you have any theories?
Oh. Um,
they had already taken pictures of
Sidonia
with the Mariner 9. And
so Mariner 9 was previking.
Pre pre Viking. That was the one where
they discover all the water channels and
the great veil was Marinas.
But then the uh Viking picture showed
clearly this face. And then they also
found this pyramid nearby.
And so uh and they were doing that was
part of the surveys to see if it was
safe to land there. They were worried
about hitting big rocks when the thing
came down.
It was a reasonable error, but then they
just said, "Oh, we can't land in
Sidonium because it's too rocky." No, it
wasn't too rocky. It was it was the fact
that the face was there and the pyramid.
But who who's calling these shots?
The intel and defense defense
department. NASA's NASA is a I call it a
hood ornament on the mysterious black
sedan which is the real space program in
the country
and that's just completely bound up with
three letter they make sure that they
clear everything with the threeletter
agencies.
Okay. So you have this
that's my understanding.
So you have this face face of Sidonia
the pyramid of Sidonia. You have this
other artificial structure which has
recently been popularized
the square on Mars. I call it the Mars
Mada.
The the the square on Mars. You have the
even conventional understanding that
there was probably water on Mars.
Oh yes, there was an ocean on Mars. And
what happened is we found that there was
a shoreline
near Sidonia Menza. It was on the it was
like on the Riviera of Mars. And we
followed the shoreline around at the at
the because they had good elevation
contours.
Mhm. And uh we found that the elevation
contour of what was called zero
kilometer
wrapped all the way around the planet
and the transition and terrain was
dramatic. It was rocky and rugged
above that u elevation and below it it
was all smooth
obviously was old ocean bottom and also
the river channels all fed into this uh
basin
and and if you were talking to a
conventional astronomer or Neil deGrasse
Tyson nobody could argue with that like
no everybody says that water probably
existed on Mars
yeah well yes one guy kept saying it was
liquid carbon dioxide which is which is
ridiculous
And is that taking
that's the only other that's the you had
to have something that was common that
was liquid
to make these channels and
water is the most abundant chemical
compound in the universe. It's made of
hydrogen and and oxygen is the third
most abundant element in the universe.
And so um so it has to be water
and so um it's been confirmed. I gave my
paper at a scientific conference in 1986
to a room full of Mars scientists
and yet the NASA will never mention my
name really in it's actually should be
called the Brandenburgg Ocean.
[laughter]
Oh wow.
I just called it the Paleo Ocean of Mars
and uh but it should be called the
Brandenburgg Ocean.
And um but who who retrieved the images
first? It was the It was the Viking team
or was it a telescope or
Oh, the uh the It was uh the Oh, it was
the Viking team.
And then But then you sort of spotted
it.
Oh, yes. Yes.
Interesting.
And u
And what were you doing at the time?
What was your
Well, we were we were investigating. We
had good Mars maps. Uh they were
actually
What was your role though? Like what was
your job title?
Oh, uh in the independent Mars
investigation
headquartered at SRRI, interestingly
enough,
Stanford Research Institute. It's the
same place where they they we found out
later that the remote viewing program
was just down the hall from headquarters
of the Mars investigation. But but what
happened was um it was an informal
investigation and I was just in charge
of getting good pictures. We're trying
to get as many pictures as possible of
the face on Mars and the pyramid at
Sidonia
uh from as many different lighting
angles as possible.
And uh we had two good really good
pictures at different times of day. And
then I went and looked at a different
part of Mars that was also on the
seashore of this ocean and found another
site with two faces. One of which looks
like the same face inside a helmet as it
Sidonia. It was really, it was kind of
hilarious because we discovered it and
we we published it and uh Carl Sean had
actually called me on the phone
really
and I was very deeply honored but he his
basically his conversations
Brandenburgg nobody ever calls me John
they always called me Brandon
Brandenberg why are you causing this
trouble
no way
yes
he said why are you causing this trouble
I was at Sania Labs I'm working on
directed energy weapons and he calls up.
Yeah. He I get this phone call and he
says, "Uh, you know, is this Carl Sean?
I want to talk to Brandon Brandenburg."
And he I said, "You're talking to him."
And he says, "Why are you causing this
trouble?" As you know, I'm always on the
hunt for things that help me stay sharp,
focused, and full of energy while I'm
diving into life's mysteries and making
this show happen. And I've got to say,
Mudwater has completely transformed my
mornings. Back in the day, I used to
struggle with that post coffee crash.
And let's not even get into the caffeine
jitters. Mudwater gave me the smooth,
steady energy I was missing. It's packed
with functional mushrooms like lion's
mane, chaga, and rayi. Plus, turmeric
and cacao all working together to keep
me focused, calm, and grounded.
Honestly, it's like coffee went on a
yoga retreat and came back zen. What I
love most is that it's not just about
replacing coffee. It's a whole new
ritual. It's a simple, nourishing way to
start the day. and I actually look
forward to it every morning. Every
ingredient is USDA certified organic,
vegan, non-GMO, and there's zero sugar.
It's energy that doesn't mess with your
sleep or make you question your life
choices at 3:00 a.m. Ready to make the
switch to cleaner energy? Head to
mudwater.com,
that's mudwt.com,
and grab your starter kit today. Right
now, our listeners get an exclusive deal
up to 43% off your entire order, plus
free shipping and a free rechargeable
frother when you use code Jesse. That's
right, up to 43% off with code jessie at
mud wtr.com.
After your purchase, they'll ask you how
you found them. Please show your support
and let them know we sent you. Keep your
energy natural and refreshing all year
long with mud water because life's too
short for anything less than clean,
delicious energy.
Implying that he knew more about this
stuff.
Oh yeah, he knew all sorts of stuff. And
u apparently I was uh [sighs]
I was the first author on this paper
we'd given at this conference and um so
uh he he kind of was very dismissive.
Then we found the second face and we
advertised that at this conference and
the face and uh it was a place they just
called it utopium and um so I got a
phone call another phone call from him.
He said I'm sorry I was kind of uh short
with you on the phone. Um and I said you
know we found another face. He says yes
I heard about that. could you send me a
copy maybe of this space, a picture of
it and tell me where it is? And I said,
"Sure." So I I I had a bunch of pictures
and I stuffed them in an envelope and I
said, you know, I got his address, Carl
Sean at Cornell University astronomy
department and I put it in the mailbox
and I I actually watched the mailbox
truck take it away and go and then um at
that time I was at Sandia Lads and I
left there and in the next month and I
was moving to Washington DC to work at
Mission Research Corporation really
excellent scientific organization
supporting the Pentagon and the agency
agencies. And so when I got there, I
gave him a call. I gave his office a
call. I said, you know, what'd you think
of the, you know, I just talked to a
secretary. I said, "Ah, this is
Brandenburgg checking in. I'm in
Washington DC now. Just wonder what he
thought of the pictures."
And [snorts]
in those days, people didn't have cell
phones. It was all, if you were lucky,
you had a beeper.
Yeah. And uh so
over the next and I'm going in and out
because we're doing all these marketing
meetings. It's the Reagan arms build up.
My god, there's all this work going on
and Star Wars and stuff. And every time
I come back to the office, the the
office manager, who's this really nice
lady, says, "John Carl Sagan called and
wants to talk to you." And I would get
on the phone to his office and of course
he wasn't there. And so we played
telephone tag for two weeks. Mhm.
And finally, I'm talking with my boss
about we're going to go to Naval
Research Lab and pitch this program and
and the office manager walks in and she
says, "John has a phone call." And my
boss just looks at her like really
annoyed like, "What is this?" You know,
"Why are you interrupting our meeting?"
And and she says, "It's Carl Se." And
[laughter] so, and my boss looked really
amazed and said, "Well, I guess you
better take the call, John." So it gave
me instant credibility. I mean everybody
talked about me because my Mars work
this, you know, random.
Well, they're like, "Yeah, why is why is
Carl Sean all
is but well they real they kind of made
fun of me as the Mars guy." And then
suddenly Carl Sean is trying to get a
hold of me all the time. And so I go to
my office and here's Carl Sean on the
phone and I said, "Well, Carl, what'd
you think of the pictures?" He says, "I
never got them."
And we both had this long moment of
silence. I said, "Okay,
here's the frame number. Here's the long
lat. Here's the, you know, I'm going to
fax you a copy right now. You know, just
give me a fax number and I'll fax it to
you." And that's what we did in those
days before internet. And he said,
"Thank you." And he he called me back
later and said, "You know, this isn't as
big as the first one." I said, "It's
about two." I said, "Yeah, it's about
twothirds the size." He says, "But uh
yeah, it's very interesting." He said,
"It's very interesting." And
and that was it.
And that was it. That was it. And then
they changed the name of the region from
being just utopia to Galaxus Chaos. And
I really
What's the significance of that?
Well, chaos means kind of cliffy ground.
So, it was kind of a technical
description, but it was apparent that
I'd thrown somebody's galaxy into chaos
by finding this second face of Mars that
looked like the first face of Sidonia.
And now it's been confirmed it is
another face. By this point,
yeah,
we knew we'd found a dead civilization
on Mars.
Yeah.
And I will I will be very honest with
you. When we found the second face, we
also found shots of the first face in
Viking pictures showing it illuminated
at morning. So you could see that it was
symmetrical right and left.
Uh and then I found I found and digested
the isotopic evidence.
And when it all kind of sitting in my
office, it all hit me. I wept like a
child for about four minutes.
Why? because they were all dead. It
looked like a thermonuclear holocaust
and had happened there and uh we were so
afraid it would happen on Earth working
at Sandia Labs and I just
I just was just overcome with grief
after a few minutes. I said, "Get a hold
of yourself." I just started I get a
hold of yourself. Get a grip, you know.
And uh I said, "Don't be sad. Be happy."
Because now you know. Now you know the
universe has no safety net
bad things can happen in the universe
and make sure they don't happen here. So
it became I became very very dedicated
at that point to see that we have a
human mission to Mars boots on the
ground
to find out exactly what happened on
Mars to make sure it doesn't happen
here.
That's my focus. Isn't one popular
theory even in again conventional
circles that Mars had a magneettosphere
and that allowed for water to exist and
stuff and that its magneettosphere was
somehow stripped.
Oh well, Mars is only half the size of
Earth. It has about 1/8 the mass of
Earth. What that means is its core would
have cooled off quicker and the the
molten core is what allows the liquid
iron dynamo that generates the magnetic
field on Earth to exist. So Mars may
have just run out of gas. But
okay, so the magnetosphere just died
out.
It just died out. Uh
and that's that wasn't So you think they
had actually extincted themselves before
that or after that? They were unrelated.
I think so. I think uh Mars
and for the audience the magnetosphere
would allow a biosphere to exist would
allow would allow water and but also
possibly life and
well and it's as they're finding out at
Chernobyl by the way life can thrive in
areas with a lot of radiation. It just
mutates faster.
Yes. And um so accelerated evolution on
Mars may have proceeded after the
magnetosphere
um died. Um but there's other things
going on. Mars looks like it had a dense
atmosphere with a nice greenhouse going.
On Mars, greenhouse effect was not a bad
word. It helped Mars to have Earthlike
temperatures even though it's farther
from the sun. And what happened then was
um suddenly all that was gone. The
something some cataclysm what looks like
a thermonuclear holocaust blew most of
the atmosphere off into space. So it's
only got a thin tenuous atmosphere left
and it leaked all its heat and um a
greenhouse planetary greenhouse traps
heat. So even the core stays hotter. Uh,
so it could have p it could have
accelerated the
decline of the magnetosphere on Mars,
losing its atmosphere. And there's still
areas of Mars that are still strongly
magnetized. And they found aurora over
them
due to the magnetic field presence.
Yes.
Wasn't there a meteorite found in Alaska
as well in the '9s that Clinton then
spoke about publicly? actually actually
was found in Antarctica and that was
ALH8401.
There's a certain type of meteorite
called CI carbonatous condrites. They're
basically old lake bottom
from some planet.
And this meteorite was from Mars.
Yes. And that was a piece of lava, but
it had a vein of carbonate inside, you
know, limestone. And it was full of
organic matter.
And uh they looked like bacterial
fossils. look like bacterial fossils in
there. I found their evidence to be
rather convincing
and but they were attacked viciously.
We have uh archaeological structures on
Mars that
seem to imply that water existed at the
very least.
Oh yes.
We have, you know, conventional
astronomers saying, you know, there was
probably a magneettosphere back back in
the day and that would allow for a
biosphere.
Yes, it would.
And then you have these artificial
you don't even need, you know, there
could have been water in the ocean. the
life in the oceans without even it being
on land and it would survive the
radiation because the seawater stops all
the radiation.
Right. Right. And then you have you have
artificial structures and then you have
Carl Sean calling you saying why are you
making all this trouble. So there's a
seems like a decent amount of evidence
that at least at the very least this is
worthy of in further investigation
and you know maybe we should move our
probability from 0% life on Mars to much
higher than that. Oh, I I I think the
data has received
critical ma has achieved critical mass
now
and and you have the isotopes which are
really like the which nobody can explain
the xenon 129 and the argon 40. So here
this brings up another question which is
you know I just interviewed Joseph
McMongle who's remote viewer number one
in the
remote viewer number one
psychic spy program and he was given
this is now public and declassified he
was given coordinates to remote view on
Mars a million years in the past.
Yes. And so you can say that like you
know as a modality remote viewing is
imperfect but the fact that he's being
given coordinates for a million years
ago is fascinating. And so what do you
and then I was just at his place and
he's showing me all these uh
correspondences
between him and JPL people or whatever
and like and with these photos that
they're sending him
and I'm like are you are you sure this
is real and you're not being like duped
or whatever? and he's he's showing me
these photos of tons of artificial
structures on Mars. And I'm like,
he's basically implying to me that it's
an open secret at Jet Propulsion Lab
that there was life on Mars. And I'm
like, why are they not publicly making a
statement about this? And he's like, oh,
well, they don't need to. And I'm like,
well, what are you talking about? Like
Gilder Grass Ty like these these other,
you know, citadel keepers
I know
rule the day. So, so, but no, but
the old guard of Mars
at, if you were to walk into JPL and
talk to a, you know, a random sampled
scientist there, randomly sampled
scientist there. If you were to walk
into JPL and you were to talk to a
randomly sampled scientist there
and say, "Hey, like there was I think
there was life on Mars, you know, a long
time ago and they might have, you know,
extincted themselves." What would they
say? Would they call you crazy and laugh
you out of the room or
their eyes would dart around to to see
if they were being or anyone was
listening and then they'd say yes, but
don't tell anybody I told you. So
why is that? Why is that not some like,
you know, thing that humanity should
just immediately know? That's just
interesting and exciting. And
uh it's
the
my explanation.
Yeah. is it's partly due to just
old-fashioned institutional politics and
agendas. Jet Propulsion Lab versus, you
know, the robotic space program versus
the human space program based at
Houston. But it also has to do with the
chilling effect on American science and
global science because of the UFO
coverup. Um I uh you know [snorts]
I can say the Mars bone is connected to
the UFO bone and the UFO bone is
connected to the headbone of this
government
and so it would be disruptive from like
a we are the sole authority on on earth
or disruptive from a religious
perspective and it would just kind of
upset people's worldviews and mass or
something. That's that's there's a great
deal to that and and that's and that's
kind of old-fashioned thinking. If
people's the public's understanding and
awareness has evolved sufficiently now
that if you told them there was life on
Mars, they would just accept it.
[clears throat] Bacterial life and even
a dead civilization on Mars is not
threatening. It's not going to invade
us.
We've gone so far beyond. We're saying
that there are saucers and hangers at
aerospace corporations and stuff and
like you know people are getting into
all this psychic stuff. There's number
one podcast in the country for a bit was
the telepathy tapes and and and you're
saying that people can't believe that
you know a million years in the past
there there was life on Mar. If anything
we live in this multi-polar world that's
a a complete powder keg where you have
mutually assured destruction between
global powers that have nuclear
arsenals. It would be an amazing wakeup
call.
Oh, it would be it'd be wonderful. Uh
but at the same time,
you you got to realize the public needs
to be brought up to speed.
Uh it's it's
once you find life on Mars, then you
know there's life in the stars. It's
just a given. if it's if it's here on
Earth and it was on Mars and it's still
on Mars by the way. Uh there's a remnant
biosphere there. Um and we have very
strong evidence for that. Then uh then
they know people know that there's life
elsewhere in the cosmos. They've gotten
over the first hurdle. The second hurdle
is are we the only intelligent life in
the universe?
And then you find the Martian
archaeology and then you realize, oh
no, we're not the only intelligent
uh culture in the universe. There was
there's a dead humanoid civilization.
It's interesting. The faces look human.
They don't look like lizard men. They
don't look like manises. They don't look
like little gray aliens.
You think the faces are fa because there
there is a concept called paridolia.
Oh, sure. where you see a face because
it's a pattern that you're used to
seeing or whatever.
Yeah.
And so you're you're you're sure that
that face is a monument that was
specifically built to
it's slightly eroded like all
archaeology. You look at pictures of the
Spinx when it was first photographed. It
looks like hell. They've spruced it up a
lot for the tourist bureau in in Egypt
because it's money, you know. They they
want people want to come there and see
this this good face. But the thing is is
that uh there's paridolia and there's
also another phenomenon in Egypt. It's
called denial.
It's called denial. Denial is not just a
river in Egypt. [sighs]
There's what's called a reverse
hallucination.
Means
you see a pattern there clearly but you
deny it exists because the implications
of it are unacceptable.
So, who is covering this up? Who who's
at the top of the pyramid, so to speak,
you know, no pun intended,
understanding, you know, that there is
like because another one more piece of
evidence, you have Haimeed
who ran the Israeli version of Space
Force. So, all their, you know, uh,
space signals, comms, I think he won
some like national security wars in in,
uh, you know, for the for Israel
three times or something. Absolutely.
He's like very well respected.
Yes, he is. and in conventional circles
and uh I actually am in touch with like
an understudy of his who speaks and and
the massage knows.
Yeah,
the massage they know. It's their
business to know. [laughter]
I'm sure they do. Um, and so and and
hopefully I would love for Haim to speak
and for him to come out because that
would be such an amazing crossing of the
Rubicon as far as his background and
credentials. And I and he's talking he's
getting older. But he says that there's
a galactic Federation that there are
like factions of aliens fighting each
other and that there are
American astronauts working with aliens
under uh ground in Mars. that there's
like a biosphere under underground or
something. Is that does that seem crazy
to you?
I'm I'm I'm amazed he's saying that. Uh
um
let's talk about a guilt-free
alternative to alcohol that's perfect
for your dry January or anytime you want
to unwind. Cornbread's organic CBD
gummies. These gummies are an absolute
lifesaver for my evening routine.
They're a natural way to relax,
celebrate, or wind down without the
hangover. I've cut back a lot on my
alcohol consumption over the last few
years. For a lot of you, trying out dry
January or cutting back generally, it's
not always easy. But swapping that glass
of wine for cornbread CBD gummies is a
total game changer. It's a simple
upgrade to your evening routine that
leaves you feeling great the next day
without sacrificing the fun. Plus, with
all natural ingredients, they're the
perfect way to stay balanced. Cornbread
hemp isn't just a product. It's a small
way to bring balance into your life.
Whether you're journaling, meditating,
or simply enjoying some downtime, these
gummies elevate the experience without
any of the guilt. It's like having a
moment of calm in your pocket, ready
whenever you need it. Alcohol doesn't
have to be the default anymore. Whether
you're cutting back for dry January or
just looking for a healthier way to
relax, you've got to try Cornbread CBD
gummies. Right now, American Alchemy
listeners can save 30% on their first
order. Just head to
cornbreadhemp.com/jesse
and use code jesse at checkout. Again,
that's cornbread.com/jesse.
Code Jesse. Cornbread hemp. This is the
good life.
Uh, all it requires is a nice
breakthrough in propulsion and contact,
then it's certainly plausible in a
science fiction sense. I I tend to
believe that uh we should just have a
public program to send
astronauts to Mars. But my my basic
thing is one two three you go like
there's life on Mars past and present.
There's a dead civilization on Mars that
looked just like us and built stuff that
looks like us. It's not a threat to us.
It's not threatening.
Mhm.
They look primitive. They look bronze
age. They were look human.
They uh and they're dead. And did I
forget to mention they're dead. They
can't, you know, they can't invade us.
And that means, but something happened
up there that looks like it may have
been um that they were attacked from
space by somebody else. We have to go up
there to Mars and find out what happened
as quickly as possible to make sure it
doesn't happen here. And you don't tell
me you're going to send a bunch of
rovers up there. You could drive rovers
around Sidonia Mensah for years and not
maybe not find anything. You have to go
up there and dig. Ask any archaeologist.
Archaeology is based on digs. You have
to get astronauts or with tools,
shovels. Um they have to dig down. They
have to find hieroglyphs and uh
and you think so you think at um
so we have to go up there. The final,
you know, I keep saying, I keep saying
the final piece of evidence. Another
interesting data point is um Donald
Trump on Joe Rogan experience. Uh he
immediately pointed to Mars. He goes,
you know, he goes, he goes the men, he
goes the the this the people from space.
They're talking about JFK and then he
goes, what do you think about the people
from space? And then immediately there's
some weird nonsequittor to Mars. There's
no reason not to think that Mars and all
these planets don't have life, you know,
because
Well, Mars, we've had probes there and
rovers and I don't think there's any
life there.
Well, maybe it's life that we don't
know, but maybe.
Well, maybe there was life there at one
point in time.
So, do you think like the highest levels
of our government are aware?
Yes, they are. Yes, they are.
Okay. And and there's just some tacit
cover up because of some kind of cold
war secrecy overhang of not wanting to
kind of rock the boat too.
Well, uh the the UFO cover up is the the
crown jewels, but the uh the you know
the treasury, the box of treasure is
actually on Mars.
What what about the moon? Is the moon
bound up? Because there are some weird
the moon has
we've already you know we've been to the
front side of the moon. Yeah, if people
want to watch Earth and monitor our
stuff,
then the moon is strategic.
Mhm.
So, you would have bases there, but you
have them on the far side. Interestingly
enough, it's almost as if you're afraid
we'll see them. The UFO coverup people
didn't want any extraterrestrial life or
intelligence talked about. But Mars,
my my view is the human race is
extremely fortunate. We have a nearby
planet easily accessible just by chem.
We don't even use need to use
breakthrough propulsion to get there. We
can get there with sheet metal uh liquid
propane or methane liquid natural gas
and liquid oxygen. And you can make that
on Mars to refuel. I mean it's I mean
we've got all these rovers rovering
around. It's very easy. Has anyone
interfered with us doing this? No. They
want us to get acquainted with the fact
that we're not alone in the universe. I
I believe the Galactic Federation,
whatever you call them.
Yeah.
They want us to advance and they're
they're watching out for us. But Mars is
a golden opportunity for the US
government to advance disclosure without
making the public feel threatened. V
various uh thought. Yeah, that's good. I
like that. That's like a political Yeah.
You don't want You don't want It's the
bat signal.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, okay. Well, let's hope
the right people hear that. Um that that
would be an interesting kind of
Elon Musk can call me anytime he wants.
[laughter]
I love it.
And and I'll take calls from President
the president too, President Trump.
I'm sure you will. Um you mentioned a
name earlier, Richard Hogland. He wrote
he wrote a couple books.
Wrote a couple books.
He wrote he wrote Dark Mission and then
another one about monuments on Mars. the
dark the dark mission stuff gets into
like NASA being some like occult
ritualistic, you know, like organization
doing do literally like doing doing
launches at specific times of year the
day and year and and and and engaging in
rituals.
I don't I don't know. I don't believe
you don't believe any of that. My
favorite quote about Jet Propulsion Lab
is actually from Whitley Strabler who
I've sat down with a couple times
and he said one of the management
people had said at Jet Propulsion Lab um
they were talking about finding life on
Mars and one manager had scolded the
rest of the managers saying don't you
realize that life on Mars means death
for JPL
because that'll mean Houston. This is
this is this is uh Houston versus
Pasadena.
Ah
and Mars right now is an all you can eat
buffet for jet propulsion.
Why is it why is it death for JPL? I
don't
because it means that they'll get the
all the money will go to the human space
flight not robotics.
And by the way
but well you would you that's really
limited.
Well that's a that's a very limited
thing. I don't believe that. I don't
believe that, but they do.
That can't be the over that. I mean,
they they have to be smarter than to
actually believe that.
I'm sorry, but like you have to believe
that if we found life on Mars, you would
get a net increase both on the robotics
and human side as far as exploration. I
my my
But that's not the way if you're an
upper management at Jet Proposing Lab,
you might not look at it that way.
You're risk averse and you're you're
you're a bureaucrat and you you don't
get fired. you don't want to rock the
boat. I understand all those local
incentives, but the idea that you
wouldn't have more resources poured into
your organization, um, which ultimately
is probably even good for your local
incentives if you were higher up there.
But you are talking about this onlogical
truth that rocks the boat on a social
level and usually the people that work
at these places are not selected for
based on their, you know, desire to rock
the boat. So
yeah.
Uh yeah, I could see how emergently
you'd net out anti-disclosure of
something like this maybe,
but I still think it's ridiculous and
like
they should just disclose it.
When the amounts of money get large
enough, even ridiculous things that
normal people like us would think it are
ridiculous become concerns.
And um they uh they view that u things
are working fine.
Mhm.
Why fix it? Mhm.
Why change anything?
Can Can you So, because I'm sure a lot
of people are going to accuse both of us
of being quacky or crazy just because
Oh, get used to that.
Of course, I'm used to it. But, um, is
there anything you can say about updates
in tech or science that you've
contributed to just in a conventional
sense?
Oh, yeah.
So, that like they don't think you're
some insane person. Oh, the uh I
invented the water uh based microwave
electrothermal thruster.
Really?
And using water as fuel and I got it
working and now it's flown in space
successfully.
That's amazing.
And it uses just distilled water as fuel
and uses microwaves.
Where is it being used?
Uh well, it's being flown in on a
spacecraft. They they found it with, you
know, they fired in space to raise the
orbit of the spacecraft. It was a space
tug.
What company operationalist?
Momentous.
Momentous space. Yes,
they do like ride share and space tugs
and
they're doing space tugs. I worked there
as a consultant for a summer and got
everything running for them and um so it
was it was great fun and I have the
patent on it. Uh and uh I think the
patents expired. They wait they waited
till the patent had expired and then
hired me as a consultant to get it to
fly. So it's it's a so that was one
thing I did. Um, I'm also the only
person who's gotten uh a simple formula
for Big G with no diddle factors in it.
I took it to a string theory conference
and presented it there and they did gave
me the ultimate compliment at that
conference. What did they say?
They got mad at me.
Ah, that's great.
Cuz they never been able to derive the
value of the gravitation constant from
strength.
How do you like the thing about theories
of everything which you have? It's so
hard. You know, I'm like I'm Yeah. Like
my buddy Eric Weinstein, he has a theory
of everything called geometric unity.
You have quantum loop gravity. You have
that's been discredited now.
Sure. You have string theory. You have
so many theories of everything. And if
you're
My theory is not a theory of everything.
It's a theory of basically what's
observed
pretty much.
You have wolfframe physics. My point is
is like
Oh, yeah. Well, you know, we're all
we're all trying to solve the big
problem.
It's the Einstein unification problem
we're trying to solve. But the string
theory people have gotten distracted by
adding 11 new dimensions when all you
need is actually just one new dimension.
Can you experiment?
That's the that's actually the thumb on
the hand,
the fifth dimensional. Can you
experimentally prove your theory?
Yes.
How?
Oh, I presented it at a conference. uh
we got experiments where we uh found we
could pulse electromagnetic fields and
uh uh get a local weakening of gravity
that we could easily measure. It was
like a one part per thousand. It wasn't
you know we didn't have any flying
around the room. It was was basically
like coils, bites balloons that we could
turn on the power and they
if you if you got some physicists from
Stanford or MIT or whatever to you know
try to stress test the experimental
protocol, would they have anything
they'd be able to say like get to
discredit the experiment?
No.
So this is what I
Well, I you know I I got up we have
three different methods of doing this
and uh I presented at the APS meeting uh
gravity modification.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And uh you know and I um I'm I'm waiting
for somebody to verify it because we
it's it's interesting and I don't know
you know may I don't know if your theory
is right or wrong but like it's
interesting. I speak to a lot of these
scientists at at prestigious places. I
have a buddy who's a PhD, you know,
physics at Stanford and I'm like, you
know, talking to him about experiments
that could prove various theories of
everything. And he's always like, it
needs a wow factor. And I'm always like,
well, why if it what if it doesn't have
a wow factor, but it just like measures
out accurately on this thing and like
you can you can
he's talking about a big budget.
No, but that it's true. It's like you
have all these competing uh uh theories
of everything and a lot of them are
attached to scientists like yourself who
seem like they've done credible things
in other areas. So like you can't a
priori just write off but the the theory
is
that doesn't stop anyone
but the theory is sort of sitting in
this like liinal space where you're like
I got this small effect and then like
I'm waiting for peer review or whatever
like nobody else is qualified to peer
review it and like the effects are small
and it's just extremely it's
frustrating.
Oh it it is frustrating but uh I've
learned to become patient and uh you
know I presented at a conference and it
was wellreceived. I showed everything on
how to do it. And
what do what do you need resources wise
to make this more
consensive? You can do these experiments
for about uh the simplest experiment you
do for about $200. And then the other
ones
you the simplest experiment you can do
for $200.
Yes.
You are you serious?
It's just a myar balloon with some uh
toy motor armature hung beneath it. you
hit it with about um 30 watts of AC
power at about 400 hertz and it will get
a little bit lighter and the balloon
will rise.
So you'll see weight reduction.
You see weight reduction and it's it's
just a balloon. It's just it's just
something hanging below. I have a video
of it and uh I can uh and and uh and
then we also did we hung it from um hung
a coil. It's the the the best way to do
it is use Tesla three-phase rotating
power which is very commonly used now in
a lot of u uh motors for uh drones. It's
very lightweight, very compact, very
powerful and uh we got things to lose
like they weigh 100 gram and we get them
to lose like half a gram. Can you
explain what's happening to cause the
weight reduction?
Uh yes. I mean we have what's called a
vacuum Bernoli equation which basically
says if you imagine
uh people are used to electric lines of
force that's you know that's [gasps] you
know somebody touching uh vandagramraph
generator and their hair all stands up
those are electric lines of force uh the
the hair basically is materializing
those and then uh magnetic lines of
force you just shake put a piece of
paper over a magnet and shake iron
filing You see these lines of force
[snorts] from the magnetism and then
gravity has lines of force too. It's
basically just you know raindrops follow
the lines of force and gravity and um
apparently
uh we get the lines of force to um
basically
move away from the object and just be
surround uh just concentrate in the
areas around the object. And so the
object itself feels less gravity and
that's the center of mass. And so the it
it if it's like hung underneath a
balloon, uh the balloon will rise and
and uh because it's more buoyant, you
know, it's less uh there's less force
resisting the force of buoyancy. And
then or you can put on a chemical scale
and do it that way. People don't like
doing the chemical scale because they,
you know, it looks like, well, maybe the
electromagnetic field is interfering
with the coil uh the um uh chemical
scale, but we were able to show that
that wasn't happening.
So, you're where where in your in your
theory, where does gravity and
electromagnetism where do they unify?
Okay, they unify the key to unifying
gravity electromagnetism is called the
pointing vector. If you combine electric
and magnetic fields
like in a ray of light, it points in the
direction of the travel of the light
photon, the light ray. And it's it's the
the direction of the radiation pressure.
Um [snorts]
the theory I proposed shows that gravity
can be thought of as a form of radiation
pressure. uh and this is also put off's
idea that and and Sakurov's idea that
this radiation pressure produced by the
zero point uh fluctuations. Um if you
put um two
why is why is gravity
constant or proportional to mass if it's
caused by 0 point fluctuations?
Uh because the mass um in a sense kind
of absorbs the zero point
some of the zero point. So, uh, if you
have two objects in a room or a
weightless, let's say you have a box on
the space station, no gravity,
you have, uh, and it's a dark box and
you put two bright objects in there,
they will repel each other due to mutual
radiation pressure. [snorts] But if you
turn the box white hot and then have two
dark objects in there, they'll actually
attract each other because of mutual
shadowing with a 1 / r 2 force, the same
as gravity. And that's a conceptual way.
Uh but then there's of course there's a
plasma physics way where you um you have
two two plates uh uh charged uh
differently so that there's electric
field between them and a magnetic field
running down the plates uh across the
faces of the blades and everything every
charged particle you put in there uh
regardless of mass regardless of charge
all drift in the same direction at the
same rate. Then if you can't the uh if
you tilt the plates relative to each
other, they all accelerate at the same
rate and it looks just like gravity. And
so I wrote the theory around that. Um
one interesting um result of it is that
when you combine that with the tensor
metric tensor formulation of general
relativity in Einstein, uh you get that
the the vacuum weighs nothing, which is
reassuring.
the anti-gravity effect of the zero
point fluctuations
actually neutralize their own mass so
that the gravity ends up weighing
nothing in my theory and uh and then of
course uh it involves also the fifth
dimension so you can show that you can
derive the value of the gravitation
constant
DARPA funded you to work on this
yes 200 grand
and what did what happened at the end of
that
I handed them a report and they said,
"Thank you, Dr. Brandenburgg. Here's
your check. Don't let the door hit you
when you go out of the building."
They didn't say, "We think this is valid
or invalid."
Oh, some of them said that they thought
this was quite valid and they were very
pleased. But others, but the head of the
whole program who was signing all the
head of [snorts] the program
uh had a very poker face and he just
said, "Thank you, Dr. Brandenberg, for
your help." So I I got the feeling that
I they wanted to know what I knew.
I had a DARPA program manager in here
named John Blitch and he didn't say
this. This is my speculation but he kept
having these programs in certain cases
with nine figure budgets.
Yes.
Hundreds of millions. And they seemed to
get start to get successful results or
at least be very promising at at the
start and then they would sort of go
into a black box and like you know they
they would disappear.
It happens. It means you're doing good
work.
So that means you're doing good work
because you think it's being funneled
into some sort of
Yes. It's going it's gone black.
You think that's gone black? Do you
think that's going to the legacy UFO?
I No, I think it'll all come out. In
fact, uh what's interesting?
Well, no. But do what where is that
going? Where's the work going though
when it gets funneled?
Oh, site 51.
Area 51.
Yeah. I mean, they they probably found
some parts of my theory interesting. I I
think they had a working kind of
engineering working model of it that
that gave them, you know, the effects
they wanted, but they always wanted to
get, you know, a more polished physics
model.
Did were you ever did they ever try to
recruit you to legacy UFO efforts or
I sense that they were kind of trying to
do that at one point, but um
what happened?
I was black ballalled by somebody.
That's and that's okay. I I I decided I
was probably fortunate because I would
have ended up at site 51 and a lot of
bad stuff happens out there.
Who blackled you and how did it how did
they approach you initially?
Oh, well, I was uh talking to uh one of
the intel agencies people and they
which what did you say? Which agency?
Uh I'd rather not.
Okay. And then they uh um they kind of
invited me to uh discuss things more
deeply. And then um
then I was invited to the headquarters
of this agency and went through a very
bruising um kind of interrogation
about something else. and they it was
like this person
didn't want me involved and he was
trying to make me uh look like uh I was
a bad uh person, you know. And so what
was funny is the person who was trying
to recruit me apologized to me before I
even went into the room to meet with
these people and u he says, "I'm sorry,
John, about what's going to happen."
[laughter]
[clears throat]
Basically, he was telling me I I I had
been black ballalled.
And who was the And so who Yeah. Who was
the person blackballing you? Do you have
a sense of
um I didn't know his name at the time. I
found out his name later, but I'd rather
not talk about it.
Oh, you want to talk about Okay.
It was in the, you know, was in the
lower levels of an interesting building.
And I just, you know, it was
I do think all of us have have good and
bad days as scientists. And it was uh I
I I didn't feel badly about what my
answers were, but they this one person
was very unhappy with me. And so I it
was kind of his way of getting me ruled
out. And um so it was uh it was an
adventure. But uh I've you know I'd also
become aware that a lot of the safety um
considerations that you find at a normal
government facility are not followed at
site 51. M.
And also,
have you been to Area 51?
No, never been there. And but I've I've
heard of cases of people, you know,
being told to dispose of very hazardous
materials, getting sick, and uh getting
cancer. And uh then they ask, well,
[panting and gasps]
what was I, you know, what was I
handling? They gave me this this thing.
And uh
they said, "You don't work here anymore.
You never worked here. This place
doesn't exist." And one guy had to take
pictures of it from the highway and
[snorts] said, "I used to work there."
He had to tell a federal judge, "See
this all these buildings in the distance
in the desert? I used to work there."
And the government attorneys denied
seeing any buildings in the pictures.
Jesus.
I know.
That's horrible. It was and I so I was
very glad I didn't end up there and um
they were they were basically the people
were basically told
um take this stuff out to you know the
back 40, dig a big pit with a bulldozer,
hose it down with diesel and burn it.
Jesus. And then this and then they they
stood there and the smoke and and the
the orders were so stupid that it was
upwind of the uh facility. So this this
horrible chemical smoke got all over the
facility. Everyone was coughing and
wheezing and they then developed cancer,
lung cancers from what it is they were
disposing of. And that's when they tried
to and the government then fired them
all and wouldn't cover their medical
costs. It was just a it was just a it
was it was a horror story and they they
yeah the crucial day was they they
showed a picture of site 51 taken from
some viewpoint on the highway where you
can actually see it. And the federal
judge said, "Yeah, I see the buildings
there." And they said, "That's where we
used to work." And and the government
attorneys said, "We don't see any
pictures. We don't see any buildings in
those pictures.
Have you heard of a Z machine?
I used to work next to the Z machine in
San Die.
What is that?
Well, it was a what's called a Zpinch
means zeta. It means uh you're running a
bunch a kind of a miniature lightning
bolt through a chamber and it the
magnetic force crushes the plasma so you
can get fusion that way and it's a way
to get fusion. And uh at Sandia Labs,
they decided to make the chamber really
small and the bank of capacitors that
powered it really big. We're talking a
million lightning strikes worth of
power.
Do you think you get with sort of high
energy physics, directed energy, that
sort of thing? Do you think you get
weird uh side effects with time? Because
in general relativity, gravity and time
are related. And you know if you get
enough maybe you know energy output you
might mess with with gravity somehow you
know even if you know like that um uh
stress energy tensor Einstein's
equations you need like an infinite
amount of of energy but maybe there are
ways to amplify that per this Navy
scientist Sal Py's work can you via very
high amounts of electromagnetism kind of
break spaceime itself
oh I believe it's quite possible and
What where does that lead you
ontologically? Cuz I
Well, if it gives you warp drive, you
can open up maybe a portal to Alpha
Centauri. Uh, you know, it's time with
a, you know, wormhole connecting you to
Alpha Centauri. So, do we have some sort
of like subrosa space program that
involves like portals to like other like
star systems or something or
[clears throat]
by by the time you realize we're not the
only intelligent people in the universe
and we're not the most advanced because
the universe is a lot older than we are.
And uh then you kind of have to adopt
a slightly science fiction attitude that
well kind of everything is possible.
Then you kind of finally say, well,
what's probable? Um you'd say, well, if
we had stuff like that, then people
would blab about it in their sleep or at
in a bar or something. But then they do,
[laughter]
right? Yeah. I don't know. I mean,
so we don't we don't know. It's it's all
very
um it's there's a there's a a part of
intelligence work that's called rum.
Mhm.
People ruminate over things. But
actually no, it's rumor intelligence.
Do but so do you know anything? So that
you would say no or yes on that sort of
program some
I would say probably not but
maybe.
Okay. Like I said, the only times I've
been really wrong in my career is when
I've told people, "Ah, that nobody could
ever do that."
Yeah. Sure, sure, sure. What um you know
a lot about what happened at Roswell in
1947.
Yes.
Um so, so what happened there?
Uh
you know, it's known as the most famous
UFO crash perhaps of all time. This like
dividing line, the advent of the nuclear
age.
It is. It is. It was the It was the
beginning of the nuclear age. was World
War II
had not even been over for two years.
Everyone was still on an adrenaline
high because of World War II and how it
had turned out. And they had the Roswell
was only about
100 miles I think from the Trinity site
where they tested the first nuclear.
They turned the desert to glass and it
was a plutonium bomb. So the the fallout
those days with people thousands of
people getting killed every day on Euima
and Okinawa, they you know they don't
they didn't worry about safety stuff
that much. So the fallout plume full of
plutonium
uh that didn't get burned up in the
explosion. It just was still there
passed over Roswell. So there had a big
strip of of u uranium uh plutonium
contaminated soil around Roswell that
they conveniently didn't tell anybody
about.
And so then they had this uh the 509th I
think it was the 509th bomber group
there. They had all the nuclear weapons
on Earth were stored at Roswell.
Wow.
All five of them.
They had five nuclear weapons.
entire nuclear weapons arsenal for the
entire planet and suddenly everybody
started seeing all the UFOs. That's
where we got the name flying saucer.
Kenneth Arnold saw them in um over
two months before
two months before and they were all over
the country and if you read Philip Caros
the day after Roswell the US government
went into panic mode because they
started seeing a lot of them down in New
Mexico where they were testing the V2
rockets the delivery system for nuclear
weapons and they had all the nuclear
weapons on Earth stored there and so
they he said they concentrated did their
security
uh operations there.
They didn't tell the people at Roswell
Army Air Base about it though. They were
out of the loop. It was
compartmentalized.
So the UFO coverup even in those days
was operating as a compartment in the US
government. So I talked to the veterans
from um Roswell.
You've spoken to veterans?
Yes. Yes, I have.
Are these firsthand witnesses?
These were firsthand witnesses.
What did they say? Well, they they
talked about the wreckage being carried
through. They
they said um they found this wreckage
nearby. Max Brazzle found the wreckage
nearby. Uh brought it into town, showed
it to the sheriff, and the sheriff told
him, "Take it to the base." And so they
did. He did. And um then the people from
the base went out and found yes, there
was this whole football fields sized
area of wreckage out there. And um
so they said uh everybody was seeing
UFOs. So the base commander, who was a
very well-liked fellow, very popular
fellow named Colonel Blanchard, called
up the newspaper and said, "You know,
look what we found. We found a crash
flying saucer."
nobody, you know, he had no orders
regarding them at all. And so, so they
uh then they published in the newspaper
and um what happened was a bunch of
World War II veterans who were in a
motorcycle gang called the Booze
Fighters, which is a play on Foo
Fighters, took over Hollister,
California
for a day and had a drunken party
downtown and uh that kind of stole all
the headlines that weekend. Uh it was
like the weekend of Fourth of July. And
so then this story came out that they
had a crash UFO. And the Blanchard, the
commander at the base, got this very
angry phone call from Fort Worth, Texas,
a big air base there. Uh I can't
remember what the general there was in
charge, but he basically chewed his head
off over the phone and said, "You're not
supposed to talk about that. You know,
it's a weather balloon. Don't talk about
the the wreckage. It's nothing. It's
nothing. He said, "We're sending people
up there to collect everything." So they
said this and back in those days, the
Army Airore, it was Army Airore. It was
not the Air Force yet. It was still part
of the army. My father was in the Army
Airore in World War II and he flew out
flying out of England. And um
uh they said this red-haired colonel
showed up, barking orders, you know,
several deuce and a half trucks arrived
full of troops. They basically took over
Rosal Army Airfield for about a week.
They went and gathered up all the
wreckage they could find. They had guys
walking along side by side across
fields, you know, picking up p any piece
of metal or something. And some guys
apparently put put it in their pockets,
you know. And so this red-haired colonel
kind of took over the base and uh was
known for just screaming at everybody
and uh then so then and they flew all
the stuff out and they had you
[clears throat] know I beams with
hieroglyphics on them and they had all
these plates and stuff. They they they
told me about this stuff and uh at this
conference. It was called remember uh
reminiscences
of Roswell and it was a bunch of people
brought together who are the survivor
officers and the daughters of the
sheriff and um and uh it was a great
experience to be there and I sat at
banquet next to these people and and uh
we had a great time and um uh but what
happened then was then suddenly
everything was gone and life went back
to normal and they said they had the
base commander would have a meeting with
his chief officers every Monday morning
[snorts] and Blanchard the next meeting
after everybody the deuce and half
trucks and the screaming colonel had
left that they had this meeting and the
one of the officers at the meeting says
well what did you think about what
happened the last two weeks and all
Blanchard would do was laugh and said
boy did we screw up [laughter]
and
Now they that apparently was a bunch of
people were completely out of the loop.
I mean they were guarding the atomic
bombs but that didn't mean they knew
everything the government knew. And at
the same time uh roughly the morning of
4th of July an object crashed on the
plains of San Augustine about a 100
miles away. It had a big hole in it in
the side and a bunch of people saw it
and then the same red-haired colonel
showed up. This was
a few days before the Roswell he showed
up at Roswell, but this guy showed up
like the morning of the 4th of July
screaming orders to everybody and they
gathered up this flying saucer that had
crashed there with a big hole in the
side of it. what and uh the dead aliens
and there was apparently one live alien
and they got them all and just hauled
them away. And there were some a team of
archaeologists investigating Indian
ruins
and um then there were some campers and
this red-haired colonel lined them all
up and said that if they told anybody
about what they had seen the government
was going to kill them and their
families too. I mean it was wartime se
warlike secrecy and you must remember it
was less than two years after World War
II was loose lips sink ships everybody
was still operating that way. Um these
people remember seeing the whole sky
light up because of the first nuclear
test and then
wondering what had happened and then the
government saying oh we had a accident
and ammo dump. Mhm.
That's what caused the big flash that
lit up the entire sky.
That's helpful context. It's
Oh, yeah. It's it's so the context of it
was everyone was used to secrecy,
used to following orders and used to
trusting the government for everything.
And uh so then so then um so there were
two recoveries basically following um
roughly the early morning of 4th of July
and um they were about 100 miles apart.
One of them was a saucer with a big hole
in the side and the other one was a
field of wreckage of you know that
something had exploded in midair. And um
what I found out was that we had a night
fighter during World War II called the
Black Widow was painted glossy black
just like the spider. When the big UFO
surge of sightings happened, they pulled
all of those night fighter squadrons
from Europe and Japan into the United
States and apparently into the southwest
around Roswell. So it apparently what
happened was they had those patrolling
over Roswell to protect the nuclear
weapons stockpile.
Do you think there were bodies found at
Roswell?
Oh yes. Yes. I'm quite confident that
they recovered bodies. They even
apparently recovered, you know, the
reports are they covered at least one
live alien and they were the little
short gray guys with the big eyes and um
and the vultures and coyotes had
apparently eaten some of the bodies too.
And you know that sounds almost like
human beings miscalculating. Uh
apparently because
uh I wrote a book on this recently
called cosmic awakening and I have this
all documented in there or you know as
as best as you can take the reports and
document them. Um uh and um they
uh
people make mistakes even even people in
outer space make mistakes just like
humans do. They they miscalculate. And
not only that, you're trying to find
some plutonium.
They're there flying over Roswell trying
to h figure out how many nuclear weapons
we have there, how big they are. And but
there's so much plutonium in the area
that they have to fly really close to
the ground
to to to to get a good signal. In fact,
they're flying two crafts close together
so that one can get the kind of noise
level and the other one will get the
signal. And you could just imagine and
there was apparently a very bad
lightning storm that night. So here are
these people from outer space flying
around. and they're trying to get this
very sensitive signal to to get some
good data and there's lightning storms
going on, you know, and it's all in
electromagnetic interference which
really bothers like micro sensitive
electronics, but the P61 Black Widow was
vacuum tube technology. They were used
to flying through tropical.
That's the conventional story in Philip
J. Corso's account and others is that
it's some sort of high-powered radar
directed energy thing. I I don't think
so. It was uh I they they they were
during World War II, the Foo Fighters
were commonly spotted and there were all
sorts of radar beams flying around. They
never reported any crashes then. Um uh
you know, they they would have been
operating in the Earth's environment
with powerful radar beams scanning
around. So that that is that some sort
of myth? Like that's what Steven Greener
and a bunch of other people sort of
repeat all the time is that directed
energy weapons is how you take these
things out, which I I feel awkward
talking about because I think it's a
really bad sort of semi unethical thing
if that's the case. But no, semi
extremely unethical. But um yeah, that's
that's real.
It's sad to reflect on the fact that
there may have been secret clashes
between our military and uh
extraterrestrials and um but
well, it's it's almost like uh going out
in a plastic boat and running into some
killer whales and they start ramming
your boat. You know, what are you going
to do? Well, often it's like I think we
lure them in with nuclear material and
then do
Oh,
there's uh Yeah, there's um
Isn't that messed up?
Well, there's I heard accounts saying
that
the government wanted as many crashes as
possible so they could harvest as much
technology. And you know, if you if you
can't capture one craft intact, you can
maybe capture
three pieces of different craft and you
know kind of combine them together and
find you know figure out the systems. So
it was it was the Cold War. We just
gotten done with World War II. They were
fighting the Korean War. Remember in
1952 they were overflying uh UFOs were
overflying Washington DC and they were
still fighting the Korean War in Korea
at the time. So, it was very much a I
grew up during the Cold War and then the
shadow of World War II. And it uh it was
um
you know, I mean, all my uncles except
for my nuclear physicist uncle had been
in the combat, you know, had been in
combat veterans World War II. The some
of the most interesting evidence I've
found for Roswell is actually that there
was a contract between Los Alamos and
Battel Memorial Institute in 1949
and it was around uh Nitanol and Nitanol
is basically this like almost memory
metal that you know uh remains
unperturbed no matter how much you kind
of you know put stress against it or you
know shapeshift it. It always kind of
goes back into its original form and
it's it's really cool. And it was like
declassified by Battel in the '60s. So
you have to ask this question, why was
it like classified for a decade plus?
And then why does Los Alamos have a
contract with Battel in 1949, you know,
right after the Roswell crash or maybe
Aztec crash of 1948, I don't know. But
it lends some credence because Jesse
Marcel is the most famous account around
Roswell. He was, you know, shown
Yes.
taking a picture next to a weather
balloon, which he went, he came out. He
was a he was a Air Force intelligence
officer. He came out.
He's got this funny look on his face. I
love it.
In 1979, he came out and he was like,
you know, this was a I basically was
part of this cover up and that was BS.
And in fact, I handled this memory
metal. Yeah. And that's what he says. It
was a shape-shifting memory medal. So,
you have the contract and then you have
the fact that he's saying he's handling
this metal. I think that's kind of
interesting. Oh, according to Philip
Corso, a lot of the um stuff recovered
from these crashes, especially Roswell,
was the seed crystal for a lot of the
technology we have now.
There's clearly some BS in that book cuz
he he had a co-author, and I'm blanking
on his name, but the co-author gave him
24 hours to edit the thing. And so, it's
like he didn't, you know, it was clearly
like somehow, you know, the narrative
was was controlled in some ways in a way
that sprinkled in BS with some maybe
some real elements. So, but um
that's a standard technique by the way.
Oh, it's that's that's been the strategy
in UFO world. It's why I'm so frustrated
like doing this show because I I know
there's so much real stuff, but there's
so much BS. It's the
flood very noisy signal as they say.
Signal to noise uh is low. I mean, they
have a lot of noise out there and the
government will release uh pieces of,
you know, supposed leaks and they have
what I call a destruct package in them.
You know, they have a something that can
be really proven.
That's right. The government hands you a
mixed bag and then you have to sort of
like, you know, chew chew through it and
it's passage material and it's
recruiting and it's it's all it's all
sorts of it's very effective strategy.
The flood the flood the zone strategy.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's flood the zone. Um,
so, uh, yeah, in the 80s and all really
the 70s,
it's also called blowing smoke, you
know,
I think I think UFOs cuz Jay Allen
Heinneck was, you know, the he was the
blue book guy,
the astronomer, and he
claimed to flip, you know, and you had,
you know, James McDonald, who's this
Arizona State, you know, um, physicist.
Yes. who was earnestly looking into the
UFO thing and had his own UFO sighting
at Savannah River site, this plutonium,
you know, reactor um in South Carolina.
And he he goes to and he's a serious
physicist. He goes to Jaylen Heinik and
he says, "You've been, you know, taking
part in this cover up. This is
ridiculous. Like what you saw in
Michigan wasn't swamp gas. Like you know
this is BS." And Jaylen Heinik gets all
sad and he and then Jen Heinik the the
nominal story is that Jaylen Heinik
flips to being like reformed and pro
UFO. He
had a Jesus moment that
I I think that's fake. I don't think
that's a real story. Actually, this is
really crazy but um Rod Serling who
happens to be my dad's godfather and and
he made UFOs past, present, and future.
So, I think Edward's Air Force base
reaches out to him and like promises him
like footage of a UFO and he like gets
taken through all these like hoops. He's
jumping through these hoops and he like
makes this movie and Jacqu Valet who's
Jaylen Heinik's assistant you know and
Jay Alen Heinik show up in the movie and
they're pushing really hard this
extraterrestrial hypothesis that that's
what it feels like which Jacqu Valet
then sort of moves out out of and he he
moves more into this kind of
interdimensional control system
hypothesis
angels
angels demons that sort of thing which I
think is probably directionally more
correct or something but at least as I
don't know who knows we're seeing a
medley of phenomena But um you know
they're sort of pushing that and then
the vid there is like a little bit of
video from uh I think Edwards or or one
of the other Air Force bases and it it
just
is super unsatisfying and there's a
pretty good debunk of it online where
it's probably just an F4 fighter jet.
Yeah.
And like I I just I I believe it
probably is just an F4 fighter jet. So
like I basically think that movie was
like lured in like like to by like
and they wanted Sterling to be involved.
to be involved. And then Jaylen Heinik
also I just learned this he I think
provided the laptop to Paul Benowitz
where Paul Benowitz was receiving alien
signals from he's being scoped by Rick
Dodie who's an Air Force official
investigation.
They put LSD in his toothpaste or
something. Yeah. And he gets visited by
I used to drive into Sandia lab every
morning right past Paul Benowitz's
office. Mh.
He had a company called Thunder
Corporation was remote sensing.
That was his specialty. Ultraviolet,
infrared, magnetic, everything.
Interesting.
And every morning I'd see Thunder
Corporation. That looks like an
interesting place. And then I found out
later it was the scene of this terrible
drama of him um citing things over.
There's a mountain out in the desert at
Kirtland Air Force Base called Monzano
Mountain and they store nuclear weapons
there. He cited UFOs flying over there a
lot
and had all sorts of recordings and the
government came to him and said, "Uh,
Paul, don't do this anymore. Quit doing
that and don't talk about it." And and
he
told them where to stuff it. And um he
then they uh I I was sitting there at a
MUON conference where Stan Moore, who
had been the original leaker of the uh
MJ12, got up and confessed to being a
government agent whose job was to
monitor
Bill Moore was Bill Moore. Yeah, Bill
Moore was the his job was to monitor the
effectiveness of the SCOP operation on
Benowitz to drive him insane. so that no
one would pay any attention to him
and Benitz ended up committing suicide.
I I wasn't aware. I heard he died in a
mental institution. They invol sorry
they involuntarily committed him and
that's what happens
generally the government will at least
you know in a lot of countries they will
just take you out and kill you but in
this country they will actually approach
you and say quit talking about this.
Yeah. don't don't you know don't do this
anymore and if you don't listen to them
then they they raise the ante and
they'll put LSD in your toothpaste or
give you cancer or something and you
know and and that's that's in other
words that's part of what the government
is covering up is a lot of its
activities in preserving this secret.
Don't you find that interesting that
there's a Jaylen Heinik Paul Benowitz
connection? I mean that's pretty insane.
I find it not I find it sad.
Yeah, it is
because Hinik then being a smart guy
would have to realize what they were
doing to Benowitz and um and then Heinik
was in Close Encounters of the Third
Kind.
Yeah. And um
which if you in my book Cosmic Awaken I
discuss was apparently the government
celebration
of uh you know through Hollywood of uh
an accommodation with the gray aliens
uh that they were going to have not only
DANT in the cold war they were going to
have Dant in outer space but that didn't
work out very well and there was this
reported military clash at Dulce
reported
But the reports I heard several reports
of it in DC and um Leonard Stringfield
talked to me about it and he said he'd
heard three different versions. The only
different version, the only difference
between the versions was the number of
people who got killed, both human and
alien. And he said that um so he
believed that it really happened cuz he
talked to military veterans.
Do you think aliens are good or bad or
Oh, they're like us. There some are
a mix.
They're a mix. I mean, pick a pick a
human for.
Do you think they're extraterrestrial or
interdimensional or all?
Well, I I think most of them are just
flesh and blood like we are. They make
mistakes like we do. They crash in the
desert. The coyotes and vultures eat
their bodies. That doesn't sound like an
interdimensional being to me. But at the
same time, human beings are partly
interdimensional. We have a
consciousness that is not
there parts of the human being that
can't really be isolated and analyzed
scientifically right now. And that's
probably a good thing. But uh uh then I
you know I'm just
I'm just an Episcopalian. I was funny. I
was a Pentecostal fundamentalist when I
was younger. because of that I believe
in supernatural.
Yeah. So, uh there are interdimensional
beings I believe and um what's really
fascinating to me is that the major
religions on earth are cosmic religions
where the supreme being is a cosmic god.
He's not just a god of earth. He's not
just a god of human beings. He's a god
of everything. And that makes our
religious u heritages among the major
religions. And I'm I'm most familiar
with Judeo-Christianity because I am
part of that religion, a Christian. Um
um
somebody can tell come from outer space
and land in my backyard and say, "Well,
I created you. I own you. I own this
planet." And I say, "Well, no. God owns
me.
[laughter]
God owns you, too. Even if you don't
realize it, I said, you know, look, uh,
you may think I'm a speck of dust.
You're a speck of dust to God, too.
We're all to We're all equal in sight of
God.
What is God to you? How would you define
God?
Well, he's the supreme being. He's the
almighty.
How do you How do you follow God?
Oh, well, I just go to church.
[laughter]
My my Christianity is fairly boring. I I
just go to church and um I uh I worship
and it's a very personal thing for me
and uh I wouldn't even be doing this
unless I felt God wanted me to do it.
It's uh somehow parts of it are kind of
frightening but uh when I realize God is
in charge, [snorts] it doesn't make me
afraid anymore.
That's beautiful. Well, Dr. Brandenburg,
I really appreciate your time, man. This
has been a pleasure and a blast. Yeah.
No, likewise.
Thank you for the wonderful questions.
Oh, yeah. Well, I think people really
enjoy this.
Oh, yeah. And also, I wrote I did I will
mention Yes,
I wrote a science fiction novel about
everything I heard about in Washington
DC around the water cooler and the
coffee machine.
I have uh people who've approached me
from Hollywood. Now they're going to try
and make it a new movie.
Love it. Well, thank you, Dr. Brandon.
Thank you so much.
This is a blast, man.
Oh, it's great. Great. I'm so
[clears throat] glad you liked it. Heat.
Heat.
over there.